REFERENCE.md, before:

# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

#### Public Classes

* [`promtail`](#promtail): promtail's main interface. All interactions should be with this class.

#### Private Classes

* `promtail::config`: Creates files and folders associated with promtail's config
* `promtail::install`: Installs promtail
* `promtail::service`: Creates a service defintion for promtail

### Functions

* [`promtail::strip_yaml_header`](#promtailstrip_yaml_header): A function to strip the --- from the beginning of a string
* [`promtail::to_yaml`](#promtailto_yaml): A function to convert a hash into yaml for the promtail config

## Classes

### <a name="promtail"></a>`promtail`

promtail's main interface. All interactions should be with this class. The promtail
module is intended to install and configure Grafana's promtail tool for shipping
logs to Loki.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
include promtail
```

##### Sample of defining within a profile

```puppet
class { 'promtail':
  clients_config_hash   => $clients_config_hash,
  positions_config_hash => $positions_config_hash,
  scrape_configs_hash   => $_real_scrape_configs_hash,
  password_file_content => $sensitive_password_file_content,
  password_file_path    => $password_file_path,
  service_ensure        => $service_ensure,
  server_config_hash    => $server_config_hash,
  target_config_hash    => $target_config_hash,
  bin_dir               => $bin_dir,
  checksum              => $checksum,
  version               => $version,
}
```

##### Settings in a Hiera file

```puppet
---
promtail::password_file_path: '/etc/promtail/.gc_pw'
promtail::password_file_content: ENC[PKCS7,MIIBasdfasdfasdfasdfasdfasdf==]
promtail::server_config_hash:
  server:
    http_listen_port: 9274
    grpc_listen_port: 0
promtail::clients_config_hash:
  clients:
    - url: 'https://logs-us-west1.grafana.net/api/prom/push'
      basic_auth:
        username: '1234'
        password_file: '/etc/promtail/.gc_pw'
promtail::positions_config_hash:
  positions:
    filename: /tmp/positions.yaml
promtail::scrape_configs_hash:
  scrape_configs:
    - job_name: journal
      journal:
        max_age: 12h
        labels:
          job: systemd-journal
          host: "%{facts.networking.fqdn}"
      relabel_configs:
        - source_labels:
            - '__journal__systemd_unit'
          target_label: 'unit'
        - source_labels:
            - 'unit'
          regex: "session-(.*)"
          action: replace
          replacement: 'pam-session'
          target_label: 'unit'
```

##### Merging scrape configs in Hiera

```puppet
class profile::logging::promtail {
  $_real_scrape_configs_hash = lookup('promtail_scrape_configs_hash', {merge => 'deep'})
  class { 'promtail':
    scrape_configs_hash => $_real_scrape_configs_hash,
  }
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `promtail` class:

* [`service_enable`](#service_enable)
* [`service_ensure`](#service_ensure)
* [`clients_config_hash`](#clients_config_hash)
* [`positions_config_hash`](#positions_config_hash)
* [`scrape_configs_hash`](#scrape_configs_hash)
* [`bin_dir`](#bin_dir)
* [`checksum`](#checksum)
* [`version`](#version)
* [`server_config_hash`](#server_config_hash)
* [`target_config_hash`](#target_config_hash)
* [`password_file_path`](#password_file_path)
* [`password_file_content`](#password_file_content)
* [`source_url`](#source_url)

##### <a name="service_enable"></a>`service_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

The value passed to the service resource's enable parameter for promtail's service

##### <a name="service_ensure"></a>`service_ensure`

Data type: `Enum['running', 'stopped']`

The value passed to the service resource's ensure parameter for promtail's service

##### <a name="clients_config_hash"></a>`clients_config_hash`

Data type: `Hash`

Describes how Promtail connects to multiple instances of Loki, sending logs to each.
See https://github.com/grafana/loki/blob/master/docs/clients/promtail/configuration.md
for all parameters.

##### <a name="positions_config_hash"></a>`positions_config_hash`

Data type: `Hash`

Describes how to save read file offsets to disk.
See https://github.com/grafana/loki/blob/master/docs/clients/promtail/configuration.md
for all parameters.

##### <a name="scrape_configs_hash"></a>`scrape_configs_hash`

Data type: `Hash`

Each scrape_config block configures how Promtail can scrape logs from a series of targets
using a specified discovery method.
See https://github.com/grafana/loki/blob/master/docs/clients/promtail/configuration.md
for all parameters.

##### <a name="bin_dir"></a>`bin_dir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

The directory in which to create a symlink to the promtail binary

##### <a name="checksum"></a>`checksum`

Data type: `String[1]`

The checksum of the promtail binary.
Note: each platform has its own checksum.
Values can be found with each release on GitHub

##### <a name="version"></a>`version`

Data type: `String[1]`

The version as listed on the GitHub release page
See https://github.com/grafana/loki/releases for a list

##### <a name="server_config_hash"></a>`server_config_hash`

Data type: `Optional[Hash]`

Configures Promtail's behavior as an HTTP server. Defaults will be used if this block
is omitted.
See https://github.com/grafana/loki/blob/master/docs/clients/promtail/configuration.md
for all parameters.

Default value: ``undef``

##### <a name="target_config_hash"></a>`target_config_hash`

Data type: `Optional[Hash]`

Configures how tailed targets will be watched. Defaults will be used if this block
is omitted.
See https://github.com/grafana/loki/blob/master/docs/clients/promtail/configuration.md
for all parameters.

Default value: ``undef``

##### <a name="password_file_path"></a>`password_file_path`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

The fully qualified path to the file containing the password used for basic auth

Default value: ``undef``

##### <a name="password_file_content"></a>`password_file_content`

Data type: `Optional[Sensitive[String[1]]]`

The value to be placed in the password file. This value is cast to Sensitive via
lookup_options defined in `data/common.yaml`

Default value: ``undef``

##### <a name="source_url"></a>`source_url`

Data type: `Stdlib::HTTPUrl`

The URL from which promtail packages can be downloaded

Default value: `'https://github.com/grafana/loki/releases/download'`

## Functions

### <a name="promtailstrip_yaml_header"></a>`promtail::strip_yaml_header`

Type: Ruby 4.x API

A function to strip the --- from the beginning of a string

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
concat::fragment { 'server_config_hash':
  target  => $config_file,
  content => $promtail::server_config_hash.promtail::to_yaml.promtail::strip_yaml_header,
  order   => '10',
}
```

#### `promtail::strip_yaml_header(String $yaml_string)`

A function to strip the --- from the beginning of a string

Returns: `String` Returns the string with the leading header stripped off

##### Examples

###### 

```puppet
concat::fragment { 'server_config_hash':
  target  => $config_file,
  content => $promtail::server_config_hash.promtail::to_yaml.promtail::strip_yaml_header,
  order   => '10',
}
```

##### `yaml_string`

Data type: `String`

A string that may start with the ---'s used to denote a YAML file

### <a name="promtailto_yaml"></a>`promtail::to_yaml`

Type: Ruby 4.x API

A function to convert a hash into yaml for the promtail config

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
promtail::to_yaml($promtail::config_hash)
```

#### `promtail::to_yaml(Hash $config_hash)`

A function to convert a hash into yaml for the promtail config

Returns: `String` Returns the YAML version of the hash as a string

##### Examples

###### 

```puppet
promtail::to_yaml($promtail::config_hash)
```

##### `config_hash`

Data type: `Hash`

A Puppet hash to be converted into YAML

Commit message:

allow promtail installation via package

REFERENCE.md, after:

# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

#### Public Classes

* [`promtail`](#promtail): promtail's main interface. All interactions should be with this class.

#### Private Classes

* `promtail::config`: Creates files and folders associated with promtail's config
* `promtail::install`: Installs promtail
* `promtail::service`: Creates a service defintion for promtail

### Functions

* [`promtail::strip_yaml_header`](#promtailstrip_yaml_header): A function to strip the --- from the beginning of a string
* [`promtail::to_yaml`](#promtailto_yaml): A function to convert a hash into yaml for the promtail config

## Classes

### <a name="promtail"></a>`promtail`

promtail's main interface. All interactions should be with this class. The promtail
module is intended to install and configure Grafana's promtail tool for shipping
logs to Loki.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
include promtail
```

##### Sample of defining within a profile

```puppet
class { 'promtail':
  clients_config_hash   => $clients_config_hash,
  positions_config_hash => $positions_config_hash,
  scrape_configs_hash   => $_real_scrape_configs_hash,
  password_file_content => $sensitive_password_file_content,
  password_file_path    => $password_file_path,
  service_ensure        => $service_ensure,
  server_config_hash    => $server_config_hash,
  target_config_hash    => $target_config_hash,
  bin_dir               => $bin_dir,
  checksum              => $checksum,
  version               => $version,
}
```

##### Settings in a Hiera file

```puppet
---
promtail::password_file_path: '/etc/promtail/.gc_pw'
promtail::password_file_content: ENC[PKCS7,MIIBasdfasdfasdfasdfasdfasdf==]
promtail::server_config_hash:
  server:
    http_listen_port: 9274
    grpc_listen_port: 0
promtail::clients_config_hash:
  clients:
    - url: 'https://logs-us-west1.grafana.net/api/prom/push'
      basic_auth:
        username: '1234'
        password_file: '/etc/promtail/.gc_pw'
promtail::positions_config_hash:
  positions:
    filename: /tmp/positions.yaml
promtail::scrape_configs_hash:
  scrape_configs:
    - job_name: journal
      journal:
        max_age: 12h
        labels:
          job: systemd-journal
          host: "%{facts.networking.fqdn}"
      relabel_configs:
        - source_labels:
            - '__journal__systemd_unit'
          target_label: 'unit'
        - source_labels:
            - 'unit'
          regex: "session-(.*)"
          action: replace
          replacement: 'pam-session'
          target_label: 'unit'
```

##### Merging scrape configs in Hiera

```puppet
class profile::logging::promtail {
  $_real_scrape_configs_hash = lookup('promtail_scrape_configs_hash', {merge => 'deep'})
  class { 'promtail':
    scrape_configs_hash => $_real_scrape_configs_hash,
  }
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `promtail` class:

* [`service_enable`](#service_enable)
* [`service_ensure`](#service_ensure)
* [`clients_config_hash`](#clients_config_hash)
* [`positions_config_hash`](#positions_config_hash)
* [`scrape_configs_hash`](#scrape_configs_hash)
* [`bin_dir`](#bin_dir)
* [`checksum`](#checksum)
* [`version`](#version)
* [`server_config_hash`](#server_config_hash)
* [`target_config_hash`](#target_config_hash)
* [`password_file_path`](#password_file_path)
* [`password_file_content`](#password_file_content)
* [`source_url`](#source_url)
* [`install_method`](#install_method)
* [`package_ensure`](#package_ensure)
* [`package_name`](#package_name)

##### <a name="service_enable"></a>`service_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

The value passed to the service resource's enable parameter for promtail's service

##### <a name="service_ensure"></a>`service_ensure`

Data type: `Enum['running', 'stopped']`

The value passed to the service resource's ensure parameter for promtail's service

##### <a name="clients_config_hash"></a>`clients_config_hash`

Data type: `Hash`

Describes how Promtail connects to multiple instances of Loki, sending logs to each.
See https://github.com/grafana/loki/blob/master/docs/clients/promtail/configuration.md
for all parameters.

##### <a name="positions_config_hash"></a>`positions_config_hash`

Data type: `Hash`

Describes how to save read file offsets to disk.
See https://github.com/grafana/loki/blob/master/docs/clients/promtail/configuration.md
for all parameters.

##### <a name="scrape_configs_hash"></a>`scrape_configs_hash`

Data type: `Hash`

Each scrape_config block configures how Promtail can scrape logs from a series of targets
using a specified discovery method.
See https://github.com/grafana/loki/blob/master/docs/clients/promtail/configuration.md
for all parameters.

##### <a name="bin_dir"></a>`bin_dir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

The directory in which to create a symlink to the promtail binary

##### <a name="checksum"></a>`checksum`

Data type: `String[1]`

The checksum of the promtail binary.
Note: each platform has its own checksum.
Values can be found with each release on GitHub

##### <a name="version"></a>`version`

Data type: `String[1]`

The version as listed on the GitHub release page
See https://github.com/grafana/loki/releases for a list

##### <a name="server_config_hash"></a>`server_config_hash`

Data type: `Optional[Hash]`

Configures Promtail's behavior as an HTTP server. Defaults will be used if this block
is omitted.
See https://github.com/grafana/loki/blob/master/docs/clients/promtail/configuration.md
for all parameters.

Default value: ``undef``

##### <a name="target_config_hash"></a>`target_config_hash`

Data type: `Optional[Hash]`

Configures how tailed targets will be watched. Defaults will be used if this block
is omitted.
See https://github.com/grafana/loki/blob/master/docs/clients/promtail/configuration.md
for all parameters.

Default value: ``undef``

##### <a name="password_file_path"></a>`password_file_path`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

The fully qualified path to the file containing the password used for basic auth

Default value: ``undef``

##### <a name="password_file_content"></a>`password_file_content`

Data type: `Optional[Sensitive[String[1]]]`

The value to be placed in the password file. This value is cast to Sensitive via
lookup_options defined in `data/common.yaml`

Default value: ``undef``

##### <a name="source_url"></a>`source_url`

Data type: `Stdlib::HTTPUrl`

The URL from which promtail packages can be downloaded

Default value: `'https://github.com/grafana/loki/releases/download'`

##### <a name="install_method"></a>`install_method`

Data type: `Enum['package', 'archive']`

The way how promtail shall be installed, supported are archive (binary from GitHub) or package from an existing repo

Default value: `'archive'`

##### <a name="package_ensure"></a>`package_ensure`

Data type: `Enum['installed', 'absent']`

The desired ensure state of the package. Only used if `$install_method` is set to `package`

Default value: `'installed'`

##### <a name="package_name"></a>`package_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the package. Only used if `$install_method` is set to `package`

Default value: `'promtail'`

## Functions

### <a name="promtailstrip_yaml_header"></a>`promtail::strip_yaml_header`

Type: Ruby 4.x API

A function to strip the --- from the beginning of a string

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
concat::fragment { 'server_config_hash':
  target  => $config_file,
  content => $promtail::server_config_hash.promtail::to_yaml.promtail::strip_yaml_header,
  order   => '10',
}
```

#### `promtail::strip_yaml_header(String $yaml_string)`

A function to strip the --- from the beginning of a string

Returns: `String` Returns the string with the leading header stripped off

##### Examples

###### 

```puppet
concat::fragment { 'server_config_hash':
  target  => $config_file,
  content => $promtail::server_config_hash.promtail::to_yaml.promtail::strip_yaml_header,
  order   => '10',
}
```

##### `yaml_string`

Data type: `String`

A string that may start with the ---'s used to denote a YAML file

### <a name="promtailto_yaml"></a>`promtail::to_yaml`

Type: Ruby 4.x API

A function to convert a hash into yaml for the promtail config

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
promtail::to_yaml($promtail::config_hash)
```

#### `promtail::to_yaml(Hash $config_hash)`

A function to convert a hash into yaml for the promtail config

Returns: `String` Returns the YAML version of the hash as a string

##### Examples

###### 

```puppet
promtail::to_yaml($promtail::config_hash)
```

##### `config_hash`

Data type: `Hash`

A Puppet hash to be converted into YAML
